# Indexing-Crawling-and-Ranking
Indexing is the process of adding web pages into Google search. Google tries to understand what the page is about and analyzes the content of the page, catalogs, images and video files implanted in a page. The Google Search index contains hundreds of billions of webpages and is well over 100,000,000 gigabytes in size.   Search engines crawl the internet to discover keyword attached to websites and pages. These results are stored and organized into a database called an “index” for quick retrieval. Once content has been indexed, it can be served up on search engine results pages (SERPs) for relevant search queries. Today, Google Search can help you search text from millions of books from major libraries. In short, if you want your content to be found, it needs to be indexed for the opportunity to be seen.  There are a few methods for inviting a search engine to crawl a page in order to be indexed more quickly. XML Site Maps Robot Meta Tags Fetch as Google Submit URL Hosting Content  The Sitemaps protocol allows a webmaster to inform search engines about URLs on a website that are available for crawling. A Sitemap is an XML file that lists the URLs for a site. Meta tags are essentially little content descriptors that help tell search engines what a web page is about. Meta elements are tags used in HTML and XHTML documents to provide structured metadata about a Web page.  Crawling is the first part of having a search engine recognize your page and show it in search results. Crawling is the process by which Googlebot visits new and updated pages to be added to the Google index. New sites, changes to existing sites, and dead links are noted and used to update the Google index. Crawlers use algorithms to establish the frequency with which they scan a specific page and how many pages of the website it must scan.  Googlebot is the web crawler software used by Google, which collects documents from the web to build a searchable index for the Google Search engine.  Ranking - Once a keyword is entered into a search box, search engines will check for pages within their index that are a closest match; a score will be assigned to these pages based on an algorithm consisting of hundreds of different ranking signals.  These pages (or images &amp; videos) will then be displayed to the user in order of score.  So in order for your site to rank well in search results pages, it’s important to make sure search engines can crawl and index your site correctly – otherwise they will be unable to appropriately rank your website’s content in search results.
